{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh18000\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 Macronutrients are the primary components of our diet, supplying the energy and materials needed for survival and function. They include carbohydrates, proteins, and fats\'97each critical in different ways. Carbohydrates are the body\'92s preferred energy source, especially for the brain and muscles during activity. Found in fruits, grains, and legumes, they should make up 45\'9665% of total daily calories. Proteins support muscle repair, enzyme production, immune response, and more. High-quality sources include eggs, meat, dairy, tofu, and beans. Most adults need around 0.8 grams per kilogram of body weight daily, though active individuals may need more. Fats often get a bad reputation, but healthy fats are vital for hormone production, cell structure, and nutrient absorption. Unsaturated fats from nuts, seeds, olive oil, and fish are especially beneficial, while trans fats should be avoided entirely. Fats should comprise 20\'9635% of caloric intake. Balancing macronutrients according to lifestyle, health goals, and medical conditions is essential. For example, endurance athletes may prioritize carbs, while someone managing type 2 diabetes might moderate their intake. A diet too high or low in any macronutrient can cause energy crashes, hormonal imbalance, or poor long-term health outcomes. Understanding the function of each macronutrient is the first step toward nutritional literacy.}