{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh17440\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 Micronutrients include vitamins and minerals that the body needs in tiny amounts\'97but their impact is enormous. Vitamins like A, C, D, E, K, and the B-complex group support vision, immunity, metabolism, and blood clotting. Minerals like calcium, potassium, magnesium, iron, and zinc regulate muscle function, nerve signaling, oxygen transport, and bone strength. For example, iron helps hemoglobin carry oxygen in the blood, and a deficiency causes fatigue, dizziness, and reduced cognitive performance. Globally, iron deficiency is the most common nutritional disorder, affecting 1 in 4 people. Vitamin D, often synthesized from sunlight, is crucial for calcium absorption and immune regulation. Its deficiency is linked to weakened bones and higher infection risk. Leafy greens, nuts, dairy, citrus fruits, and lean meats are all micronutrient-rich foods. However, modern diets high in processed food often lack variety, making deficiencies more common than expected. Multivitamin supplements can help, but they should not replace whole foods, which offer better bioavailability and contain complementary compounds. Populations at higher risk of deficiency\'97such as pregnant women, vegans, and older adults\'97may need targeted supplements. Even though micronutrients are needed in small quantities, imbalances can lead to serious health problems. Maintaining a nutrient-dense diet is essential for prevention and overall well-being.}