{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh17440\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 Most people glance at food packaging without understanding what\'92s in it. Nutrition labels are powerful tools for managing your health\'97if you know how to interpret them. At the top is the serving size, which defines all other values on the label. If a serving is one cup but you eat two, you\'92re consuming double the listed calories, sugar, and sodium. Next, look at calories, but don\'92t stop there. Check the macronutrient breakdown\'97especially added sugars, saturated fats, and fiber. The % Daily Value (%DV) column tells you how much a nutrient contributes to a 2,000-calorie daily diet. For example, 25% DV of sodium means the item provides a quarter of your daily sodium allowance. Ingredients are listed by weight, so if sugar is one of the first three, it\'92s likely high in added sugar. Look for whole food ingredients near the top, like oats or brown rice. In 2020, U.S. regulations updated labels to include added sugars separately, a critical improvement. For fiber, aim for 3+ grams per serving. Sodium should ideally stay under 2,300 mg per day. Labels can be misleading\'97\'93low fat\'94 products might be high in sugar. Reading labels regularly builds awareness and helps you make informed, healthier choices at the grocery store.}