{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Semibold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh15060\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Chapter: Comparing Three Popular Diets \'96 Keto, Mediterranean, and Intermittent Fasting
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
Choosing the right diet depends on your goals, health status, and lifestyle. Here\'92s a breakdown of three well-known approaches: ketogenic, Mediterranean, and intermittent fasting.\
\

\f2\b 1. Ketogenic Diet (Keto)
\f1\b0 \
The keto diet is a high-fat, very low-carb plan designed to put your body into ketosis\'97a state where fat becomes the main energy source. You\'92ll eat lots of fatty foods like avocados, cheese, eggs, meat, and oils, while cutting carbs to about 20\'9650 grams per day. That means no bread, pasta, fruit, or sugar.\

\f2\b Pros:
\f1\b0  Rapid weight loss, reduced hunger, improved insulin sensitivity.\

\f2\b Cons:
\f1\b0  Nutrient deficiencies, constipation, and difficult long-term adherence.\
\

\f2\b 2. Mediterranean Diet
\f1\b0 \
Inspired by traditional diets of Southern Europe, this plan emphasizes whole foods: vegetables, fruits, legumes, fish, olive oil, whole grains, and moderate wine. Red meat and processed foods are limited.\

\f2\b Pros:
\f1\b0  Backed by strong evidence for heart health, weight control, and longevity.\

\f2\b Cons:
\f1\b0  Slower weight loss than keto, requires consistent cooking and planning.\
\

\f2\b 3. Intermittent Fasting (IF)
\f1\b0 \
IF is not about what you eat, but when. The most common method is 16:8\'97fasting for 16 hours and eating during an 8-hour window. Some do 5:2 (eating normally for five days, restricting calories on two).\

\f2\b Pros:
\f1\b0  May improve metabolic health, simplify eating, and support fat loss.\

\f2\b Cons:
\f1\b0  May cause fatigue, hunger, or overeating during eating windows if not balanced.\
\
Each diet has unique benefits and risks. There\'92s no one-size-fits-all solution\'97only what works best for your health, schedule, and preferences.}