{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh17440\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 Plant-based eating is gaining traction, with research linking it to lower risk of heart disease, obesity, and certain cancers. But it\'92s not automatically healthy. A well-planned plant-based diet includes fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes, nuts, and seeds in diverse combinations. These provide fiber, antioxidants, and many essential nutrients. However, plant-based diets may lack key nutrients typically found in animal products: 
\f1\b \cf2 vitamin B12
\f0\b0 \cf2 , iron, calcium, zinc, and omega-3 fatty acids. For instance, B12 is vital for nerve function and red blood cell production, but it\'92s not naturally present in plant foods\'97making supplementation or fortified foods necessary for vegans. Non-heme iron in plants is less bioavailable, but combining it with vitamin C (like pairing lentils with bell peppers) boosts absorption. Complete proteins\'97those containing all essential amino acids\'97can be achieved by eating diverse sources like tofu, quinoa, and chickpeas. Not all plant-based foods are healthy: sugary granola bars, fried snacks, and meat substitutes can be ultra-processed and high in sodium. A successful plant-based approach involves variety, balance, and sometimes supplements. Studies from Harvard and the American Heart Association emphasize that a whole-food, plant-forward diet, not a junk-food vegan one, delivers long-term health benefits. The key isn\'92t just avoiding meat\'97it\'92s nourishing your body intentionally.}